.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00004:

kb-00004: TFTP Error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_tftp_error:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00004
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

There are a number of ``TFTP Aborded`` error messages in the log file.  Is this a
problem?

Solution
--------

In the dr-provision logfiles you may occassionally see error messages relating to ``TFTP Aborted``.  These
errors are (typically) benign and expected behavior.  The TFTP protocol does not specify a mechanism to
obtain the size of a file to transfer for calculating completed transfer; without first requesting the file.
Digital Rebar Provision initiates the transfer request an then immediately aborts it.  This obtains the
file size for the next transfer to validate the file was served correctly.

Simply ignore these errors.  If you receive these errors and you believe you should be provisioning correctly,
check that you have correctly specified the default/unknown *BootEnv*, default *Stage*, and default *Workflow*
are set correctly.

error messages may appear similarly to:

  ::

    May 24 13:48:22 ubuntu dr-provision[7092]: dr-provision 2018/05/24 20:48:22.006224 [280:13]static [error]: /home/travis/gopath/src/github.com/rackn/provision-server/v4/midlayer/tftp.go:82
    May 24 13:48:22 ubuntu dr-provision[7092]: [280:13]TFTP: lpxelinux.0: transfer error: sending block 0: code=0, error: TFTP Aborted


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * `THE TFTP PROTOCOL (REVISION 2) <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1350>`_


Versions
========

all

Keywords
========

dr-provision, tftp aborted error

Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00004
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 09:56:23 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 09:56:23 PDT 2020

