.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00030:

kb-00030: Change Pxelinux Versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_different_pxelinux_version:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00030
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

This article describes how to replace the Digital Rebar system provided PXE provisioning
artifacts (eg ``lpxelinux.0``) with a custom version via the "*replace directory*" feature
in the ``dr-provision`` service.

Note that this process works for many of the PXE provisioning artifacts.

It may be necessary to do this for non-standard conformant hardware that will not correctly
PXE boot with the default provided provisioning artifacts in Digital Rebar.

Should you need to use a custom PXE implementation binary, please contact RackN to let them
know, as the unique hardware requirements may possibly be handled differently, or should be
directly addressed by the PXE booting process in DRP to handl the system.


Solution
--------

DRP ships with two versions of *PXELinux*, 6.03 and 3.86.  The default operation is to use 6.03 as ``lpxelinux.0`` with
all the supporting files present in the ``tftpboot`` root directory.  This does not always work for all environments.
It is sometimes useful to change this.  In general, DRP attempts to serve iPXE based bootloaders through the
default DHCP operations.  Again, this is not always possible.

The 3.86 version is a single file shipped as ``esxi.0``.

There are couple of ways to change the operation.

First, the file, ``esxi.0``, can be used by changing the bootfile option in DHCP server.  For DRP, this can be at
the subnet or reservation level.

Second, the ``lpxelinux.0`` file can be replaced.  To do this safely, a couple of steps need to be done.

#. In the ``tftpboot`` directory, copy ``lpxelinux.0`` to ``lpxelinux.0.bak``.
#. In the ``replace`` direcotry, copy ``esxi.0`` to ``lpxelinux.0``.  The ``replace`` directory is usually a peer to the ``tftpboot`` directory.
#. In the ``tftpboot`` directory, copy ``esxi.0`` to ``lpxelinux.0``.

The second step keeps DRP from overwriting your changes on startup.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_arch`


Versions
========

all


Keywords
========

pxe, esxi.0, lpxelinux.0, replace, tftpboot, pxe boot, pxe chaining


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00030
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:22:24 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:22:24 PDT 2020

