.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _content_upload_error_with_U002D:

kb-00048: Content Upload Error with 'U+002D'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00048:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00048
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

When trying to upload a Content Pack to a DRP Endpoint, you receive an error
similar to:

  ::

    Error: PUT: content-pack-name: tasks:my-task-name: Templates[0} Error parsing
    Contents: template: template-name:15: bad character U+002D '-'

The actual ``content-pack-name``, ``my-task-name``, and ``template-name``
will be specific to your content.  In addition, you may not have a Task
listed in the error message, if your template is an External template
(contained in the *templates* directory).

Solution
--------

In the referenced Template, you most likely have a Golang construct that is not
properly protected with quotes.  This is often a ``.Param`` reference to a
Parameter that contains dashes (Unicode ``U+002D`` character), which must be
quote protected.

Here is an example of the **BAD** reference:

  * ``{{ .Param foo-bar }}``

The Param ``foo-bar`` must be quote protected.  **GOOD** example:

  * ``{{ .Param "foo-bar" }}``

Find the Template line number in the referenced output; in the above example,
it is on line 15 of the template.  You will need to add quotes around the
item that contains the dashes (``-``, Unicode U+002D character).


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

n/a

Versions
========

all

Keywords
========

content pack, put error, unicode character, U+002D

Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00048
    initial release:  Thu Aug 27 09:46:54 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Thu Aug 27 09:46:54 PDT 2020

