.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00025:

kb-00025: How Can I render Double Curly Braces ``{{`` and ``}}`` during Golang Template rendering?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_double_brace:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00025
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

Often times, content based Golang templating is used to generate template files used by other
systems on the target machine (eg Jinja, Ansible, etc.).  Many of these templating systems
also use double curly braces to signal to the templating engine to perform expansion and
advanced rendering capabilities.

In these cases, the content author must arrange the DRP Golang based template to protect the
double curly braces from being intepretted by ``dr-provision`` at render time, so they are
served as in-tact double curly braces to the target Machine.

Note that this solution is *NOT* an exhaustive reference of how to do this, but does describe
some possible techniques.


Solutions
---------

Golang template complains if you are building a template that also uses double curly brances (e.g.
``{{ jinja 2 for ansible }}``) and it can be difficult to properly escape these characters.

There are multiple solutions, please review to see which best fits your needs.

Solution 1: Escape In Place
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also use a pair of single quotes (\\`) to escape the block in place to create
an string that is not modifed by gotemplates inside a gotemplate brace pair.

Generallly, this approach is recommended because it is simple and easy to read.

For example:

  ::

    "{{`{{ services['drpcli.service'].status }}`}}"


Solution 2: Substitution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another workaround is to define variables for the double brace and then use the variable in the template.

This approach is needed to make more template substitions _inside_ the Ansible code block.

For example:

  ::

    {{ $openblock := "\x7B\x7B" }}
    {{ $closeblock := "\x7D\x7D" }}

    - hosts: localhost
      vars:
        braceme: "{{ $openblock }}{{ .Param "variable" }}{{ $closeblock }}"

Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.

Example from codebase: https://github.com/digitalrebar/provision-content/blob/521f3ed31242762dba04699f51f764949ec10fb3/task-library/tasks/ansible-join-up.yaml#L60

See Also
========


Versions
========

all


Keywords
========

double curly braces, jinja2, ansible, rendering, template


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00025
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:03:02 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:03:02 PDT 2020

