.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00009:

kb-00009: What are the default passwords?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_default_password:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00009
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

A list of the common default passwords you can find in use with Digital Rebar Platform.

Solution
--------

When using the community BootEnvs for installation, the password is set to a variant of
``RocketSkates``.  See :ref:`rs_configuring_default` for complete details.

For all bootenvs (sledgehammer, centos, ubuntu, etc.) the default pattern does NOT allow login via Password.  See :ref:`rs_add_ssh` for manaing SSH Authorized Keys login details.

We *strongly* recommend changing this default or, better, using SSH ``without-password`` options as per :ref:`rs_access_ssh_root_mode` details.

A quick reference table for passwords:

======================== ============ ============
use                      user         password
======================== ============ ============
``drp endpoint auth``    rocketskates r0cketsk8ts
``sledgehammer``         root         rebar1
``most bootenvs`` (*)    root         RocketSkates
``debian`` / ``ubuntu``  rocketskates RocketSkates
``cloud-init`` images    <varies> (*) RocketSkates
``VMware ESXi``          root         <generated>
======================== ============ ============

For more information:

.. note:: ``(*)`` "most bootenvs" and ``cloud-init`` images refers to CentOS, Ubuntu, CoreOS, ESXi, etc.  Generally speaking, this is the default "installed" credentials.  Note that each distro has it's own rules about ``root`` versus installed default user accounts.  DRP follows most vendors "patterns" with regards to ``root`` -vs- unprivileged user creation, with the username changed to "rocketskates".  Some vendor specific notes are below.

For ``debian / ubuntu`` bootenvs, the default user (``rocketskates``, can be changed by setting ``provisioner-default-user`` Param), has ``sudo`` privileges.

For Images with ``cloud-init`` pieces, there often is an injected ``centos`` user for CentOS, ``ubuntu`` for Ubuntu, etc. user.  This is controlled by the ``cloud-init`` configurations of the image build process.

For more about VMware, see :ref:`vmware_esxi_passwords`



Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_add_ssh`
  * :ref:`rs_configuring_default`
  * :ref:`rs_access_ssh_root_mode`
  * :ref:`vmware_esxi_passwords`

Versions
========

all

Keywords
========

dr-provision, operating systems, default passwords, default usernames

Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00009
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 10:49:50 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 10:49:50 PDT 2020

