.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _Updating_Sledgehammer:

kb-00053: Updating Sledgehammer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00053:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00053
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

Periodically, the `drp-community-content` will be updated with newer sledgehammer images.  This is
particularly true with the v4.5.0 and v4.6.0 releases, because Sledgehammer is updating from Centos 7
to Centos 8.  This is sometimes referred as Sledge8 or SL8.

Also, sledgehammer will be updated with security fixes or other fixes that will also require an update.

This leads to: How do you update sledgehammer?


Solution
--------

There are a couple of `drpcli` commmands that can be used to help with this setup.

To update the default sledgehammer iso image, you can use this command:

  ::

    drpcli bootenvs uploadiso sledgehammer

This will get the appropriate sledgehammer image.  You can use the `-D` parameter if an external
http proxy is needed to access the internet.

Additionally, in the v4.6.0 release, profiles to choose different versions of sledgehammer are provided in the
`drp-community-content` pack.  This will enable you to track a specific release version of sledgehammer.
There will NOT be a profile per release, but a new profile will be added when a release adds a new sledgehammer.

These profiles use the :ref:`rs_provision_bootenv_customize` system to override the default sledgehammer.  By adding
one of these profile to the `global` profile, the system will use that sledgehammer for all systems.  Individual known
systems can be overridden by applying the profile to the machine directly.

Some examples of these profiles are:

  * sledgehammer-centos8-v4.6.0 - Secure Boot capable Centos8-based sledgehammer
  * sledgehammer-centos7-v4.6.0 - Secure Boot capable Centos7-based sledgehammer
  * sledgehammer-centos7-v4.5.0 - Secure Boot capable Centos7-based sledgehammer (from the v4.5.0 release)
  * sledgehammer-centos8-full-v4.6.0 - Sledgehammer with more drivers (but not Secure Boot capable)

To help with iso downloading, the profile can be used to retrieve the iso with a command like this:

  ::

    drpcli profiles uploadiso sledgehammer-centos8-full-v4.6.0



Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.

  * :ref:`rs_provisioning_models`

See Also
========


  * :ref:`rs_kb_00044`
  * :ref:`rs_provision_bootenv_customize`
  * https://provision.readthedocs.io/en/latest/doc/content-packages/basic-store.html#bootenv-customize


Versions
========

  * DRP v4.6.0 or newer for sledgehammer helper profiles
  * DRP v4.5.0 or newer for profile iso uploader


Keywords
========

sledgehammer, update, customize, iso, download


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00053
    initial release:  Sun Nov 22 17:48:00 CST 2020
    updated release:  Sun Nov 22 17:48:00 CST 2020

