.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00034:

kb-00034: Network Unreachable from Wget / Second Stage Timeout
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_wget_timeout:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00034
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

This article addresses problems with second stage and wget problems during the PXE
bootstrapping process of an operating system.  Generally speaking, these issues are
related to the Top-of-Rack switch configuration, causing port blocking delays.


Solution
--------

Throwing a *network unreachable* error from ``wget`` when trying to fetch second stage ``initramfs``; however, by the
time you get dropped into a root console, eth0 has an IP address and can connect to the server fine.  May also
see a baremetal PXE boot initial PXE boot works but then it's getting kicked to a shell before it can download
``root.squashfs``.

Troubleshooting: You can manually grab the file with ``wget`` after it bails, so communications are working fine.
It just appears it's not waiting long enough for DHCP and then fails to get the file before it gets an IP.

.. note:: You can set these changes in the ``global`` profile so it will apply everywhere.  It shouldn’t hurt
          functioning systems (they will escape the loop early) and might fix this system.


**Solution 1**: Do you run your switches with Portfast? or Spanning Tree delays?

You add these to your ``kernel-options`` parameter to alter the retry and wait times.
  * ``provisioner.portdelay=<Number of seconds>`` - seconds to wait before bring up link
  * ``provisioner.postportdelay=<Number of seconds>`` - seconds to wait after bringing up link before dhcp
  * ``provisioner.wgetretrycount=<Number of retries before failure>`` - wget of squashfs occurs once a second for 10 times by default.

If you need to specify more than one of the above three values, use a space separated list, for example:

  * ``provisioner.wgetretrycount=3 provisioner.postportdelay=120``

**Solution 2**: Is something is really "slower" than sledgehammer expects?

You could try setting ``provisioner.wgetretrycount=60``.  ``kernel-options`` is a parameter that lets you
changing the kernel parameters passed to bootenvs.  Sometimes it is used to tweak the kernel options that
the kernel is using, but it can be used for other values as well.


**CLI Example**:

  ::

    drpcli profiles add global param kernel-console to "provisioner.wgetretrycount=60 provisioner.postportdelay=120"


Additional Information
----------------------

The params listed above should be added to a profile that will be applied to the machine. You can use the global profile to make sure the param will apply to all machines, or add it to individual profiles and apply them directly to the machine.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_arch`


Versions
========

all


Keywords
========

network unreachable, squashfs, initramfs, spanning tree protocol, stp, portfast, portdelay, postportdelay, wgetretrycount, top of rack switch, ToR, switch, port blocking


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00034
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:40:47 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:40:47 PDT 2020

