.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00027:

kb-00027: Set `hostname` in a DHCP Reservation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_reservation_set_hostname:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00027
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

This article describes how to use the Digital Rebar DHCP mechanisms to set a Machine name.
A Machine *Reservation* must be created for the spcific Machine, to allow for custom setting
values like the Machine Name and a consistent (*"static"*) IP Address assignment.


Solution
--------

If you create a DHCP Reservation for a system (or convert an active Lease to Reservation), you can also set the
Hostname for the Machine.  If you are pre-creating Reservations, this will allow you to have a pre-set hostname
when the Machine first comes up.  Additionally, if you create/destroy your machine objects, but would like a
hostname to persist with the Machine Reservation when the machine returns, you can do this.

.. note:: The UX version (at least as of v1.2.1 and older) does not support setting DHCP options to
          the Reservation.  You will have to perform these actions using either the CLI or API.  The
          CLI method is outlined below.

This procedure assumes you have a Reservation created already, and we are going to update the existing
Reservation.  You can combine this procedure with creating a new Reservation, but only if you perform the
operation via the CLI or API.

  ::

    # show the current Reservation:
    drpcli reservations show 192.168.8.100

    # create a Hostname specification in the DHCP Options section of the reservation:
    drpcli reservations update 192.168.8.100 '{ "Options": [ { "Code": 12, "Value": "pxe-client-8-100" } ] }'

In the above exmaple, we are assuming our DHCP Reservation is for a Reservation identified by the IP Address
``192.168.8.100``, and that we are setting the hostname (DHCP Option 12) to ``pxe-client-8-100``.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_arch`


Versions
========

all

Keywords
========

dhcp, machine name, hostname, static reservation, ip address assignment, option 12


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00027
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:10:55 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:10:55 PDT 2020

