.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.

.. _rs_kb_00035:

kb-00035
~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_sledgehammer_no_ip:

Sledgehammer Boots Without IP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Description
-----------

It is possible to have *sledgehammer* boot and hang without an IP. This can happen in environments where DRP is NOT the DHCP server and the subnet has
restricted number IPs with more HOSTs than IPs.  The ipxe and kernel boot components do DHCP releases as they boot.  This releases IPs back to pools.
In some DHCP servers, the address is immediately available for consumption.  DRP will delay returning the address to the pool for a few seconds to
prevent this problem.  If this happens as the linux user space of *sledgehammer* takes over operation, the user space DHCP server may not get an address
because the pool is empty.  This will make the machine appear as hung or not responsive.

Solution
--------


This sometimes resolves itself as IP addresses become available.  Additional fixes including rebooting the machine, increasing DHCP scope to add more
available IP addresses to the pool, or using DRP as DHCP server.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========


Versions
========


Keywords
========

sledgehammer, pxe, ip addresses, dhcp pool, dhcp


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00035
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:45:40 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:45:40 PDT 2020

