.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00020:

kb-00020: Update Community Content via Command Line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_update_content_command_line:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00020
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

This article describes how to update or upgrade the Community Content pack via the ``drpcli``
command line.  This procedure is also true for any content pack that you may wish to update.

Solution
--------

Here's a brief example of how to upgrade the Community Content installed in a DRP Endpoint
using the command line.  See :ref:`rs_download_rackn_content` for additional steps with RackN
content.

Perform the following steps to obtain new content.

View our currently installed Content version:
  ::

    $ drpcli contents show drp-community-content | jq .meta.Version
      "v1.4.0-0-ec1a3fa94e41a2d6a83fe8e6c9c0e99c5a039f79"

Get and upload our new version (in this example, explicitly set version to ``v1.5.0``.  However, you may also specify ``stable``, or ``tip``, and do not require specific version numbers for those.
  ::

    drpcli contents upload catalog:drp-community-content-v1.5.0

or
  ::
      drpcli catalog item install drp-community-content --version v1.5.0

Now verify that our installed content matches the new vesion we expected ...
  ::

    $ drpcli contents show drp-community-content | jq .meta.Version
      "v1.5.0-0-13f1aff688b53d5dfdab9a1a0c1098bd3c6dc76c"

Next check if sledgehammer needs to be updated
  ::

    drpcli bootenvs uploadiso sledgehammer

This command will update the sledgehammer isos if required. If your output from the above command is
  ::

    BootEnv sledgehammer already has all required ISO files

Then your sledgehammer is all up to date.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_faq_drpcli`
  * :ref:`rs_drpclirc`
  * :ref:`rs_download_rackn_content`


Versions
========

all


Keywords
========

content packs, updating, upgrading, command line, drpcli


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00020
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 11:47:24 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 11:47:24 PDT 2020

