.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.

.. _rs_kb_00018:

kb-00018
~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kexec:

Can I eliminate reboots with kexec?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Description
-----------

Installing operating systems often times requires a reboot of the Machine several times.  For
physical (aka *bare*) metal, this reboot cycle can add many minutes (often times 10 or more
minutes) to the installation process.

When installing Linux operating systems, it may be possible to utilize the Linux Kernel *kexec*
mechanism to "exec" in to the new Kernel environment without requiring the Machine to pass through
a full POST cycle.


Solution
--------

Setting the `kexec-ok` param to `true` on the `global` or machine specific profile allows
BootEnvs that are *kexec* enabled to skip rebooting when changing to that BootEnv.  For example,
Sledgehammer enables *kexec* and can be started without a reboot from Linux environments.

This is a Linux specific feature.

.. note:: The *kexec* capability is defined by the compiled Linux Kernel configuration.  Some Linux
          distributions do not enable *kexec* by default.  In these cases, you may have to compile
          a custom kernel version with *kexec* enabled.  In addition, not all transition states can
          successfully utilize *kexec* even if it is enabled in the kernel.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Kexec

Versions
========

Enabled in the v3.x versions and newer.


Keywords
========

sledgehammer, kexec, post, reboot


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00018
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 11:40:54 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 11:40:54 PDT 2020

