.. Copyright (c) 2021 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _Image_Deploy_with_Curtin_Partitions_and_XFS:

kb-00058: Image Deploy with Curtin Partitions and XFS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00058:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00058
--------------------------------

Description
-----------

When doing image-deploy, there are a couple of errors that can be generated when
using XFS.  These include:

* grub-install fails because of bad filesystem type
* Missing / bad rootfs or other filesystem on reboot into running system.

This can happen when using Sledgehammer to image deploy Centos 7 or Ubuntu
18.04 or younger images.

The problem is that Centos 8 has a newer version of XFS that is incompatible with
the XFS running in previous operating systems, e.g. Centos 7 or Ubuntu 18.04.

This happens when a curtin/partitions parameter is used that sets an XFS
filesystem.  This is NOT the default and so is only triggered from this action.


Solution
--------

Within `curtin/partitions` parameter, an additional variable will need to be added
to all XFS filesystem creation stanzas.  This looks like this (in JSON format):

  ::

    "extra_options": [
      "-i",
      "sparse=0"
    ],

This tells the Centos8-based sledgehammer to generate an XFS filesystem that will
work in the older environments.

A complete XFS filesystem stanza would look like this:

  ::

       {
        "extra_options": [
          "-i",
          "sparse=0"
        ],
        "fstype": "xfs",
        "id": "disk0-part1",
        "label": "root-partition",
        "type": "format",
        "volume": "root_part"
      }

You will also need to make sure that your image contains the XFS tools.  If you are using image builder, you can
use the `image-builder/additional-packages` parameter with a value that includes `xfsprogs`.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

:ref:`rs_cp_image_deploy`
:ref:`rs_cp_image_builder`

Versions
========

v4.6.0+

Keywords
========

XFS, curtin, image-deploy


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00058
    initial release:  Tue Feb 23 14:19:26 CST 2021
    updated release:  Tue Feb 23 14:19:26 CST 2021

