.. Copyright (c) 2021 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _parameter_precedence:

kb-00057: Parameter Precedence
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00057:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00057
--------------------------------


Description
-----------
What is the order precedence for parameters?

Solution
--------
A parameter is looked up from the top to bottom of this list:

- Machine Parameter
- Machine Profile (or profiles in that profile).
- Stage Parameter
- Stage Profile
- Global Profile Parameter
- Global Profile Profile
- Parameter default.

This is handled by the template render engine.  Values at the top of the list
will replace values lower in the list.

You can see the state on a machine (except parameter defaults) by doing:

  ::

    drpcli machines params <Machine ID> --aggregate

.. note:: It is possible that a Paramter can be defined as "Composed", which
          will NOT follow the Paramter Order of Precedence.  The values will
          be built up from each of the levels of precedence and combined.

          This is defined in the Template with the use of the ``{{ .ComposeParam ... }}``
          and associated functions in the Architecture Documentation :ref:`rs_model_template`
          (link also below).


Additional Information
----------------------

The ``drpcli`` command line argument ``--aggregate`` will not show any Params default volues
in the output.

To view what the default value of a param is you can find it in the UX by clicking on the Param navigation
link on the left side of the screen, then searching for the param, then clicking on it. You can also use a
simple drpcli command.

  ::

    drpcli params show burnin-skip|jq .Schema
    {
        "default": false,
        "type": "boolean"
    }



See Also
========

  * Architecture Data :ref:`rs_model_template` documentation (Compose Param docs)

Versions
========


Keywords
========
param, param precedence, workflow

Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00057
    initial release:  Thu 26 Jan 2021 15:55:25 PM CST
    updated release:  Thu 28 Jan 2021 08:57:00 AM CST

