.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _Secure_Boot_Shim_Bootloaders_Fail_With_Proxy_DHCP_in_UEFI_Mode_Booting:

kb-00043: Secure Boot Shim Bootloaders Fail With Proxy DHCP in UEFI Mode Booting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00043:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00043
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

Booting a machine in UEFI mode with Proxy DHCP will cause the machine to
enter the GRUB command line.  The boot process stops at this point.

GRUB does not request additional configuration files.


Solution
--------

Due to a bug in the upstream Grub2 code, grub2 does NOT handle Proxy DHCP
messages in UEFI mode.  This is not directly fixable.  To make this work
for non-secure boot environments, one can override the bootloader to use
the unsigned, but functional, ``ipxe.efi`` bootloader.  The ``bootloaders``
parameter can be used to change globally or by profile for a set of machines.
Additionally, one could use the ``bootenv-customize`` parameter to alter a
specific bootenv globally or by profile for a set of machines.

For Secure Boot Mode, there is currently not a valid solution.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

RedHat Bug tracking this issue: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1809246


Versions
========

v4.4.0 and beyond content packs have this problem.


Keywords
========

Proxy, DHCP, UEFI, Grub2


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00043
    initial release:  Tue Jul  7 15:24:50 CDT 2020
    updated release:  Tue Jul  7 15:24:50 CDT 2020

