.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.

.. _rs_kb_00028:

kb-00028
~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_uefi_boot_option:

UEFI Boot Support - Option 67
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Description
-----------

This article describes how Digital Rebar and the DHCP subsystem handle assigning the ``next-server``
and ``next-boot`` (bootfile) directives for PXE booting systems.


Solution
--------

A DHCP Subnet specification will try to automatically determine the correct values for the ``next-server``
and *DHCP Option 67* values.  In most cases, you shouldn't need to change this or set these fields.  Older
versions of DRP may need the ``next-boot`` and/or the *DHCP Option 67* values set to work correctly.  This
is especially true of Virtualbox environments prior to v3.7.1.  You will need to force the *DHCP Option 67*
to ``lpxelinux.0``.

The DHCP service in Digital Rebar Provision can support fairly complex boot file service.  You can use
advanced logic to ensure you send the right PXE boot file to a client, based on Legacy BIOS boot mode, or
UEFI boot mode.  Note that UEFI boot mode can vary dramatically in implementations, and some (sadly;
extensive) testing may be necessary to get it to work for your system.  We have several reports of field
deployments with various UEFI implementations working with the new v3.7.0 and newer "magic" Option 67
values.

Here is an example of an advanced Option 67 parameter for a DHCP Subnet specification:

  ::

    {{if (eq (index . 77) "iPXE") }}default.ipxe{{else if (eq (index . 93) "0")}}ipxe.pxe{{else}}ipxe.efi{{end}}

If you run in to issues with UEFI boot support - please do NOT hesitate to contact us on the
`Slack Channel <https://www.rackn.com/support/slack>`_ as we may have updated info to help you with UEFI
boot support.

An example of adding this to your Subnet specification might look something like:
  ::

    # assumes your subnet name is "eth1" - change it to match your Subnet name:

    # you may need to delete the existing value if there is one, first, by doing:
    # drpcli subnets set eth1 option 67 to null   # The setting to null is not needed with v3.7.1 and beyond.

    drpcli subnets set eth1 option 67 to '{{if (eq (index . 77) "iPXE") }}default.ipxe{{else if (eq (index . 93) "0")}}ipxe.pxe{{else}}ipxe.efi{{end}}'


.. warning:: You should not have to add option 67 unless you are meeting a specific need.  Test without it first!


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_arch`


Versions
========

v3.7.1 and newer


Keywords
========

pxe, pxe boot, next-server, next-boot, next-file, bootfile, dhcp


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00028
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:14:14 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:14:14 PDT 2020

