.. Copyright (c) 2021 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _deploy_linux_with_universal:

kb-00061: Deploying Linux with Universal Workflows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00061:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00061
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

This document outlines how to quickly get up and running using the Content Pack
named ``Universal`` to drive Linux OS installations.

Note that in DRP v4.6.0 release, the standard Linux install "*base*" workflows
(eg *centos-7-base*, *ubuntu-20.04-base*, etc) are deprecated in favor of this
procedure.

The Universal workflows allow the Operator of a DRP system to quickly utilize
advanced zero touch operations, along with customizable workflow chaining
cpabilities.  This document only very briefly touches on a simplified use of
the Universal capabilities.  Please see the Additional Resources at the end
of this document for links to more advanced usages.


Solution
--------

Most Universal usage is designed to start from the workflow ``universal-discover``,
which then chains through different workflows automatically based on Params and map
values.  For this use case, we will use the ``universal-linux-install`` workflow to
drive standard Linux OS deployments.

Many previously existing "*base*" workflows are already provided as pre-existing profiles.
When using these, the process can skip step 1.

Example pre-existing profiles are:

  * universal-application-centos-7
  * universal-application-centos-8
  * universal-application-fedora-31
  * universal-application-fedora-33
  * universal-application-debian-8
  * universal-application-debian-9
  * universal-application-debian-10
  * universal-application-ubuntu-18.04
  * universal-application-ubuntu-20.04
  * others can be check by searching for ``universal-application-`` among the profiles
  
If customization is required, the process is generally very straighforward and simple,
requiring only four steps:

  * Create a profile that defines the Linux OS to install, and any customizations
  * Apply the profile to your target Machine(s)
  * Set the ``universal-linux-install`` workflow on the Machine(s)
  * Relax and wait for the installer to complete

Below are more detailed usage steps.

**Step 1:  Create a Profile**

  First create a Profile that sets at a minimum:

    * the parameter ``universal/application`` to the name of the profile being created without the ``universal-application-`` prefix
    * adds a Linux specific Universal Profile as a basis

  .. note:: Supported OS versions can be determined by reviewing the existing list
            ``universal-application-*`` profiles.  Custom OSes can be
            selected if BootEnvs are on the system.
            
  .. note:: The name of the profile must start with ``universal-application-``.

  The below example assumes installation of *CentOS 7*.  You can substitute ``centos-7``
  for any number of supported OS version (eg ``ubuntu-20.04``, ``debian-10``,
  ``rhel-server-8.3-full``, etc.)

    ::

      drpcli profiles create '{ "Name": "universal-application-my-centos-7", "Profiles": [ "universal-application-centos-7" ], "Params": { "universal/application": "my-centos-7" } }'

    Or in the Portal (UX):

      * Go to ``Profiles`` in the menu, and click the *Add* button at the top
      * In the *Name* field enter ``universal-application-my-centos-7``
      * In the *Profiles* field enter ``universal-application-centos-7``
      * In the Params, type ``universal/application``, select the green *Plus* button
      * Enter ``my-centos-7`` in the ``universal/application`` Param field after you've added it
      * Click the ``Save and Exit`` at the bottom of the form

  Customization of the deployed Operating System can be done by adding any other supported
  OS Param values to your Profile.

  .. note:: If you are installing a custom OS version that is not defined in the *enum*
            list, you will also have to create a similarly matching Profile.  Follow the
            ``universal-application-centos-7`` profile as an example.

**Step 2:  Add the Profile to your Machine(s)**

  Once the profile is created, associate it with the Machine(s) you wish to install.

  ::

    # you can select machines by Name:[NAME] or replace it with the Machines UUID value
    drpcli machines addprofile Name:mach-01.example.org my-centos7

  Or in the Portal (UX):

    * Go to the ``Machines`` in the left side menu
    * Select the check box for all Machines you wish to install
    * Select the ``Profiles`` tab in the top center Bulk Actions panel
    * Type ``universal-application-my-centos-7`` in the input field
    * Click the *Plus* icon to add to the selected Machines


**Step 3:  Start the Workflow**

  ::

    # you can select machines by Name:[NAME] or replace it with the Machines UUID value
    drpcli machines workflow Name:mach-01.example.org universal-linux-install

  Or in the Portal (UX):

    * Go to the ``Machines`` in the left side menu
    * Select the check box for all Machines you wish to install
    * Select the ``Workflow`` tab in the top center Bulk Actions panel
    * Type in ``universal-linux-install``
    * Hit the *Play* icon next to the drop down field

**Step 4:  Relax**

  The systems you have selected should now be passing through the Universal
  ``universal-linux-install`` Workflow.  Based on the value of the Param
  ``linux/install-bootenv-override`` in the Profile you created, the select
  OS installer will be started and completed.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

The Universal Workflows are extremely capable and can provide advanced
zero touch controls of your infrastructure.  There are many additional
settings and behaviors available in the system.  For more advanced usage
and documentation, please see the following resources:

  * :ref:`rs_universal_arch`
  * :ref:`rs_universal_ops`
  * :ref:`rs_cp_universal`
  * :ref:`rs_release_v46`
  * :ref:`rs_release_v46_deprecations`


Versions
========

DRP v4.6.0 and newer, Universal v4.6.0 and newer

Keywords
========

universal, linux install, universal-linux-install, zero touch


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00061
    initial release:  Tue Mar 23 17:47:27 PDT 2021
    updated release:  Tue Mar 23 17:47:27 PDT 2021

