.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _rs_kb_00015:

kb-00015: Convert Isolated Install to Production Mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_convert_to_production_mode:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00015
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

The *quickstart* documentation suggests setting up an ``Isolated`` mode installation for
quick PoC and Trial testing.  Should you want to convert to a system managed ``Production``
install mode, RackN recommends you re-install from scratch.  However, the below article
may help you convert or migrate should you choose to not do a fresh install.


Solution
--------

There currently is no officually supported *migration* tool to move from an ``Isolated``
to ``Production`` install mode.  However, any existing customizations, Machines, Leases,
Reservations, Contents, etc. can be moved over from the Isolated install directory structure
to a Production install directory, and you should be able to retain your Isolated mode environment.

All customized content is stored in the following default subdirectories as:

* Isolated: in ``drp-data/`` in the Current Working Directory the installation was performed in
* Production:  in ``/var/lib/dr-provision``

The contents and structure of these locations is the same.  Follow the below procedure to safely
move from Isolated to Production mode.

#. backup your current ``drp-data`` directory (eg ``tar -czvf /root/drp-isolated-backup.tgz drp-data/``)
#. ``pkill dr-provision`` service
#. perform fresh install on same host, without the ``--isolated`` flag
#. follow the start up scripts setup - BUT do NOT start the ``dr-provision`` service at this point
#.  copy the ``drp-data/*`` directories recursively to ``/var/lib/dr-provision`` (eg: ``unalias cp; cp -ra drp-data/* /var/lib/dr-provision/``)
#. make sure your startup scripts are in place for your production mode (eg: ``/etc/systemd/system/dr-provision.service``)
#. start the new production version with  ``systemctl start dr-provision.service``
#. verify everything is running fine
#. delete the ``drp-data`` directory (suggest retaining the backup copy for later just in case)

.. note:: As of DRP Version v4.3.0, content writable objects are no longer stored in raw JSON
          files in these directories.  They have been moved to new WAL (write-ahead-log)
          journalled database objects.

.. warning::  If you install a new version of the Digital Rebar Provision service, you
              must verify that there are no Content differences between the two versions.  Should
              the ``dr-provision`` service fail to start up; it's entirely likely that there may be
              some content changes that need to be addressed in the JSON/YAML files prior to the
              new version being started.  See the :ref:`rs_upgrade` notes for any version-to-version
              specific documentation.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========


Versions
========

v3.x to v4.3.0, but not including v4.3.0


Keywords
========

dr-provision, isolated, production, migration, conversion


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00015
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 11:20:19 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 11:20:19 PDT 2020

