.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.
.. index::
  pair: Digital Rebar Provision; DHCP Models


.. _Why_use_Digital_Rebar_integrated_DHCP:

kb-00052: Why use Digital Rebar integrated DHCP?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00052:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00052
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

We recommend using the Digital Rebar integrated DHCP; however, some operational environments require using another DHCP service.  RackN can provide guideance about
the required settings option and next server values for using an external DHCP server.

The purpose of this article is to outline features and benefits of using the integrated DHCP server.

Solution
--------

Digital Rebar DHCP is Required For
==================================

* Secure Boot - the integrated DHCP server is required due to chain of trust requirements in a secure boot system.
* EUFI - Digital Rebar has specialized paths that help influence EUFI booting sequences.  These paths require an integrated DHCP system.

Benefits Of Digital Rebar DHCP include
======================================

* API Driven - operators can make chnages to DHCP via API without having to change configuration files.
* Atomic Actions - operators do not need to restart Digital Rebar for changes to take effect.
* Integrated Registration - machines registered via the intergrated DHCP are known to Digital Rebar via MAC and IP address before they are fully discovered.
* Lease Timing - integrated DHCP is tuned to handle IP allocation during boot and provisioning processes.
* Protections from Lease from Exhaustion - bootstrapping systems may cycle through DHCP reservations and the integrated DHCP is designed to handle this scenario.
* IaC Controls - the integrated DHCP can be managed using Digital Rebar content packs and IaC techniques.
* Next Server - the integrated DHCP will automatically manage Next Server redirects to the correct interfaces and IP addresses without additional configuration
* Specialized Options - the integrated DHCP server can handle advanced configuration options when required for specialized infrastructure such as switches or Raspberry Pi.


Additional Information
----------------------

See `RFC 2132 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2132>`

See Also
========

Please see :ref:`rs_dhcp_arch`

Versions
========

Most features are available in v4+

Secure Boot became available in v4.4+

Keywords
========

DHCP, Secure Boot, EUFI, IPAM

Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00052
    initial release:  Thu 19 Nov 2020 08:43:27 AM CST

