.. Copyright (c) 2020 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.

.. _rs_kb_00031:

kb-00031
~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_render_kickstart_preseed:

Render a Kickstart or Preseed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Description
-----------

This article describes how to render templates used for Operating System installation.
This methodology can be used to help debug errors, problems, or just generally observe
what the Golang template rendered ``kickstart`` or ``preseed`` artifact looks like.


Solution
--------

Kickstart and Preseed files only created by request and are not stored on a filesystem that is viewable.
They are dynamically generated on the fly, and served from the virtual Filesystem space of the Digital
Rebar HTTP server (on port 8091 by default).  However, it is possible to render a kickstart or preseed
to evaluate how it is going to operate, or troubleshoot issues with your config files.

When a machine is in provisioning status, you can view the dynamically generated preseed or kickstart
from the TFTP server (or via the HTTP gateway).  Provisioning status means the Machine has been placed
into an installable BootEnv via a Stage.  If (for exaxmple) placed in to ``centos-8-install`` Stage,
the ``compute.ks`` can be rendered for the machine.  Or, if placed in to ``ubuntu-16.04-install`` Stage,
the ``seed`` can be rendered for the machine.

Get the Machine ID, then use the following constructed URL:

  ::

    MID="7f65279a-7e5c-4e69-af40-dd01af4c5667"
    DRP="10.10.10.10"
    TYPE="seed"   # seed for ubuntu, or compute.ks for centos

    http://${DRP}:8091/machines/${MID}/${TYPE}


Example URLs:

  ubuntu/debian:
    ``http://10.10.10.10:8091/machines/7f65279a-7e5c-4e69-af40-dd01af4c5667/seed``

  centos/redhat:
    ``http://10.10.10.10:8091/machines/7f65279a-7e5c-4e69-af40-dd01af4c5667/compute.ks``

.. note:: A simple trick ... you can create a non-existent Machine, and place that machine in different BootEnvs
          to render provisioning files for testing purposes.  For example, put the non-existent Machine in
          the ``centos-8-install`` Stage, then render the ``compute.ks`` kickstart URL above.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_arch`


Versions
========

all


Keywords
========

kickstart, preseed, render template, bootenv, compute.ks, seed


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00031
    initial release:  Wed Jun 10 12:28:40 PDT 2020
    updated release:  Wed Jun 10 12:28:40 PDT 2020

