.. Copyright (c) 2021 RackN Inc.
.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. Digital Rebar Provision documentation under Digital Rebar master license

.. REFERENCE kb-00000 for an example and information on how to use this template.
.. If you make EDITS - ensure you update footer release date information.


.. _ubuntu_20_04_autoinstall_fails:

kb-00062: Ubunto 20.04 Autoinstall Fails
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _rs_kb_00062:

Knowledge Base Article: kb-00062
--------------------------------


Description
-----------

Ubuntu 20.04 introduces yet another different installer to deploy Linux on to
your systems.  This solution is a combination of ``autoinstall``, ``cloud-init``,
``curtin`` deployment, and ``subiquity``.

The *autoinstall* is delivered as a YAML formated file.  As such, it is extremely
sensitive to spaces in the formatting.  If the rendered template is not fully
valid YAML, the *autoinstall* will fallback to user input to finish the install.

If you are presented with the Ubuntu interactive menu structure (generally starting
with Language selection), then the YAML template is bad.

Additionally, check the DRP System Logs (not Job logs).  If the template has a
validity error rendering, you will receive an error message in the DRP System Log.
In this case, the problem is generally not around valid YAML formatting.


Solution
--------

To verify if the YAML formatting is correct, the *autoinstall* template can be
rendered and reviewed.  Ensure that the target machine is in the appropriate
Ubuntu 20.04 BootEnv (or create a fake machine for testing purposes, and place it
in the BootEnv).

Visit a URL similar to the following (when the Machine is in the Ubuntu 20.04
BootEnv):

  * http://[DRP]:8091/machines/[UUID]/autoinstall/user-data

For example:  http://drp.example.com:8091/machines/8920cdea-b722-4f3c-98c5-dc7b6483e300/autoinstall/user-data

If this page does not render correctly, then either a validation error occured
(check the System Log for more details - not the Jobs Logs), or the Machine is
not in the correct BootEnv.

Visually inspect the YAML to verify it's valid.  Additionally, the YAML can be
checked with ``yamllint``, or any number of `online YAML Validation <https://onlineyamltools.com/validate-yaml>`_
tools.

One primary cause of YAML linting failure is due to injection of the Storage
structure, which does not adhere to the 2 space separation requirement.  See
the Ubuntu 20.04 BootEnv Documentation field for more details.


Additional Information
----------------------

Additional resources and information related to this Knowledge Base article.


See Also
========

  * :ref:`rs_cp_drp_community_content` - BootEnv documentation for Ubuntu 20.04
  * `Online YAML Tools validator <https://onlineyamltools.com/validate-yaml>`_
  * `YAML Lint <http://www.yamllint.com/>`_


Versions
========

DRP v4.6.0 and newer, DRP Community Content v4.6.0 and newer


Keywords
========

DRP, ubuntu, YAML, failed, broken, autoinstall


Revision Information
====================
  ::

    KB Article     :  kb-00062
    initial release:  Wed Mar 24 11:24:36 PDT 2021
    updated release:  Wed Mar 24 11:24:36 PDT 2021

